- [Instructor] Deploying your application to Kubernetes
should feel like deploying one single application
as opposed to deploying multiple manifest files,
one at a time.
This section will explain what are Helm charts
and how they can be used to deploy Kubernetes applications.
Kubernetes Helm offers a simple way to package
everything into one application
and allow us to manage multiple releases of it.
Helm packages multiple Kubernetes resources
into a single logical deployment unit called charts.
A Helm chart is simply a collection of YAML template files
organized into a specific directory structure.
Charts are somewhat analogous to DEB and RPM files.
However, since they are text-based, charts are versionable
and simple to maintain with familiar SCM tools.
A single chart might be used to deploy something like
See Our Greeting Card, or something more complex
like a full web application
consisting of multiple microservices.
Installation of a Helm chart in the Kubernetes cluster
is called a release.
A single chart may be installed many times
into the same cluster, and create many different releases,
each with different configuration.
For example, you can install
three versions of an application
by running Helm install three times,
with a different release name.
Helm is a tool that streamlines installing
and managing of Kubernetes applications.
Think of it like apt, yum or homebrew for Kubernetes.
Let's learn some more Helm terminology.
Helm charts may be stored on dedicated HTTP servers
called chart repositories, or just repos.
A repo is a simple HTTP server
that can serve an indexed .yaml file
that describes a batch of charts
and provides information
on where each chart can be downloaded from.
A Helm client can point to zero of more chart repositories.
By default Helm clients
point to the stable official Kubernetes chart repository.
Templates are Kubernetes configuration files in a chart
that are templatized.
Each configuration file
goes through a template rendering engine in Helm
to generate a corresponding Kubernetes manifest file.
These files are then used
to create Kubernetes resources in the cluster.
Let's look at how a sample chart might look like.
This is a directory structure
of a Helm chart for our greeting application.
Let's look at some of the files.
The first one to look at is Chart.yaml.
This is a YAML file
and contains information about the chart.
Let's look at individual fields in this file.
apiVersion is a required field
and defines the chart API version.
For now its value is fixed at v1.
Future versions of Helm may update this value.
appVersion is an optional field
and defines a version of the app that this contains.
description is an optional
single sentence description of this project.
name is a required field and defines name of the chart.
version is version number of the chart.
It must follow the Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 standard.
These version numbers are used as release markers.
Packages in repositories are identified
by name, plus version, for example,
this chart will be identified as greeting-0.1.0.tgz.
Let's look at values.yaml file next.
values.yaml is one of the ways by which
predefined values for templates can be specified.
These are specified using nested yaml syntax
and accessible in the template files
using values object.
We will see how this object is being used in the next slide.
Let's take a look at one of the template files,
deployment file for greeting in this case.
If you notice, this file is very much like
a Kubernetes configuration file
but allows template language to be specified.
Values object is used to refer to the values
specified in values.yaml.
This allows us to specify common values
such as port numbers and replica counts to be specified
at a central location, and then used inside
Kubernetes configuration file, using templates.
This promotes don't repeat yourself, or DRY design pattern,
reduces deployment complexity,
and also improves developer productivity.
Finally, let's take a look at Helm 2 architecture
and learn how a chart is converted into a release.
This architecture has already evolved for Helm 3,
so please refer to the latest documentation for that.
Our starting point, either way, is a Kubernetes cluster.
Helm has two parts, client which is also called
as a Helm client, and Server which is also called as tiller.
Tiller run inside of your Kubernetes cluster
and manages releases of your charts,
also the installations of your chart.
Helm runs on your laptop, CI/CD,
or wherever you want it to run.
Charts can be stored on disk,
or, fresh from remote chart repositories
like Debian or Red Hat packages.
The Helm client and server
are written in the Go programming language
and use the gRPC protocol suite to interact with each other.
Currently that library uses RESTPlus JSON.
Tiller server stores configuration information
about charts using ConfigMap in Kubernetes.
The client sends the interpolated configs to tiller.
It uses the configuration data
and communicates with Kubernetes API server
to create a new release of the chart.
This explains how charts are deployed
as releases in a Kubernetes cluster.
At high level, Helm client manages charts
and Helm server manages releases.